Hello. Welcome to this module, in which we'll
use the idea of creating random, hopefully entertaining stories to motivate
and explore important Java concepts. Here's an example of
a randomly generated story. We use a couple of these stories
to introduce our Java concept. Let's look at this first story. My name is Albert, and I live in France. One day I'd like to travel to Mexico,
because I've never seen a tiger and I read that they have
gigantic slippery ones there. However, because 55 orange gigantic
wheelbarrows make it difficult to travel, I may have to travel to Ecuador instead. That would be okay, but
it might take 305 minutes to get there. We'll look at another story
with the same pattern. Perhaps you can see some of
the similarities to the previous story. My name is Vivian, and I live in India. One day I'd like to travel to
the United States, because I've never seen a pangolin, and I read that
they have furious and funny ones there. However, because 95 purple, slippery
houses make it difficult to travel, I may have to travel to China instead. That would be okay, but
might take 445 hours to get there. There are many similarities
in these stories, which isn't surprising since they
were generated by a common template. You'll be exploring and modifying the Java
program that reads the story template, finds replacement words where those
are needed, and generates a story. The similarities in these stories are
captured in parts of this template, that are replaced with words chosen randomly,
from lists of words of different types. For example, you're program might
choose a name like Albert or Vivian. And choose a country like India, France,
China, the United States and more. Animals chosen could include tigers,
pangolins, and whatever dragons you might imagine,
for example. Your program can choose nouns. And as you'll see, the choices
can make for interesting stories. You'll be able to share words that
are chosen at random with other learners, as you explore these new Java concepts. Let's get started.