[MUSIC] In this video, I'll show you the output
of your next programming assignment, the programming assignment for this week. In terms of the interface
that text editor interface, you're not gonna be adding
any additional functionality. You'll be implementing an efficient
document class, which is going to do the same thing that your basic document
class did, only it's going to do it. You guessed it, more efficiently. And then you'll be implementing
some benchmarking to actually compare the running time
of your basic document with the running time of
your efficient document. So what I'm gonna show
you is the run of this document benchmarking program
that you're gonna write. So I've written it,
I've got the solution in this file. And I'll show you what it does,
and then I'll show you how you'll use Google Sheets to do some analysis and
the visualization of the data. So here's the demo,
you're going to press run, right here on your DocumentBenchmarking
class once you've got it running. And then you go over
here to the console and you can see that it's printing out
the output of these efficiency tests. Then you can just let that run. All right, it'll take a little while, but when it finally finishes
you'll have this output here. You'll have the size of
the document that you are testing. You'll have the performance
running time for basic document. And the running time for
the efficient document. And again,
you'll be writing the file that does this. You'll be writing
the program that does this. Then what we want you to do is, you're
gonna take all this data and copy it out. And go on over to Google Sheets. And then I'm just gonna
paste in this data. All right,
now I've got my data pasted in and you're gonna see a button
down here that says Explore. You're gonna press that button, and
I'm not gonna press it because this is the solution code and I don't want you to
see the graphs that I get when I run this. I want you to see your own graphs and I
want you to explore the data on your own. So you'll explore the data using this
button and it's really pretty cool of what you'll see from running
these table implementations and then visualizing the data. So, throughout this week, you're gonna learn all the tools you
need in order to do this comparison. Do this benchmarking. Implement the efficient document and
have a lot of fun playing with the data.