[MUSIC] In this part of the project,
you're gonna make your map interactive. So I wanna show you the functionality
that you'll be adding to your map. Basically the ability to interact
with these earthquake and city markers using your mouse. So I've zoomed in. So I'm in an area of the world
where there have been a lot of small earthquakes lately. And that's here near
the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. And what you're gonna be able to see
is that when you hover your mouse over the screen. When you hover over an earthquake marker. What you'll see is information
about that earthquake pop up. So I hover over this one, I can see
that it's a magnitude 4.7 earthquake. And it happened 37 kilometers north
west of La Concepcion, Venezuela. I could also hover my mouse
over city markers and see information about that city. This is Caracas Venezuela and
the population is 3.27 million. So that's what you're going to be
adding in terms of responding to mouse hover events. And you'll notice some
little weird things like, when I hover over this earthquake
marker the text appears. And the city marker is
drawn on top of that text. That's actually surprisingly hard to fix,
and so don't worry about that for the purpose of this assignment. You're welcome to fix it if you want, but if not, just go ahead and
leave it like that. Now one thing you'll wanna make sure of,
is that when you have multiple earthquake markers, or
multiple markers in a small area. You only wanna be showing information
about one of the markers at a time. So you'll wanna test this out to
make sure that you're always showing information about just one marker. Now, the other thing that you're
going to implement is click it. So when I click on a marker, I can see that basically everything
else is going to go away. So I click on that marker,
everything else goes away. I click on it again,
everything else comes back. Or in fact, if I click anywhere else,
everything else should come back. And except in certain circumstances. So if a city is close to an earthquake, if the city could potentially
be effected by that earthquake. By this definition of something called
a threat circle which is explained in the project write up. Then we want to keep that city shown
when I click on this earthquake. So here I'll click on the earthquake. And you can see that that city, Caracas,
can be effected by that earthquake. Click again, everything comes back. Similarly, when I click on the city
you can see the earthquakes that might potentially effect it. So I click on that city, and you can
see that that earthquake stays around. Cause that earthquake might have
potentially effected people in Caracas. All right.
So that's the interactivity you'll be adding to your map. And in this module's lessons. You'll learn how to respond to events
in order to add that interactivity.