Hello. In this module you
learned about arrays and how to use arrays to
crack a Caesar Cipher. You'll continue to solve
problems using arrays. They're a powerful programming tool. Arrays are indexed collections. In Java, you use brackets to
indicate an array variable. And arrays can store strings,
more ints, or even storage resources. Almost anything can be stored in an array. The power of an array is that one variable
name can represent two, a thousand, or a million different values and each value can be accessed
separately from the others. This access is done by a numeric index. A value that starts at zero for
the first element in the array. Just like you did with strings. Just as a group of mail or post boxes can
be found quickly using a number, accessing an array element by it's numeric index
helps in storing and accessing value. Here's a quick overview of
how arrays work in Java. In Java, arrays are created using new. And once an array has been
created its size does not change. However, the value stored in each
indexed array cell can change. And that's what makes arrays useful and
powerful. Arrays are created using new. And brackets are used both to indicate that a variable like names
is an array of strings and as part of the syntax in new to specify
the number of items in the array. You can define arrays of int values in
Java just as you can define arrays of string values. Int values in an array
are initialized to zero. String and other object values
are initialized to null. You can assign values to
an array using an index and you can access an array to
update the contents as well. You've used indices to
access array elements and loops are typically used to access
all the elements in an array. Here's a loop that starts at the first
index, zero, and loops through the last valid index, which is one less
than the length of the array list. This is typical code that
loops over array elements. In the loop body, the loop control variable is usually used
to access each element in the array. In this loop, the value of k is
used to indicate the index at which a word is found in
the array parameter list. In general,
this pattern of looping over all elements using indices is very common in
solving problems using arrays. We used arrays to solve several
problems including cracking code. You saw how arrays were used in
cracking the Caesar cipher method of encrypting messages. Using frequencies obtained from
the message by using indexing and arrays made it possible
to crack a Caesar cipher. Indexing was also used
in both encrypting and decrypting as well as
in cracking the code. It's good to know that the encryption
used on the internet to protect your transactions is far more
secure than the Caesar cipher. Scientists and mathematicians don't
think that today's internet encryption can be hacked or cracked using brute
force or even smart algorithms. But you should be careful online with
your personal information in any case.