[MUSIC] Hi, I'm Mia Minnes. >> I'm Leo Porter. >> And I'm Christine Alvarado. We're back with the second course in
our intermediate Java programming specialization. Some of you were with us for
our first course, and if you were, wasn't that a cool project? Others here are just joining us for
the first time. Either way, welcome. >> If you were with us for
that first course, you've already seem a glimpse of
the importance of performance and efficiency in your code even when you were
working with just moderate size data sets. What we're going to do in this
course is push that even further and think about how data structures can help
us both measure and optimize performance. >> We'll begin by learning how to perform
a high level analysis of an algorithm, we'll then apply that to data structures. Specifically, we're gonna be looking at
data structures ability to search for information, to add new information and
to remove existing information. In the process of this analysis, we're
gonna look closely at a number of core data structures and abstract data types,
including linked lists, queues, trees, binary search trees,
tries and hash tables. And we're gonna go beyond just
the high-level analysis to also look at how does this actually
perform on a real system. And lastly, we'll help you have more
confidence in your codes correctness by learning more about testing. >> And all of this will be in
the context of a really cool project. So you'll be building a text editor that
has some really modern functionality built into it. In particular,
you'll be building spell check and also auto-complete, which is a feature
that I use all the time, for example, when typing strings
into the Google search bar. In addition to those functionalities, you'll also be implementing some
games as part of your text editor. One of those will help you
determine the readability or how easy it is to read a piece of text,
and also a game for going from one word to another,
just by modifying one character at a time. >> Yeah, that's a really fun game. But it also turns out it's gonna
illustrate a problem which is really central to many fields in
computer science and related fields, like computational biology and
machine translation. So, this project-based approach isn't
the only thing you'll recognize from our first tours if you took it. We're also bringing back the ability for you to choose your own
path through this course. So you'll be able to use the resources
we provide to customize your experience, getting the help you
need when you need it and challenging yourself to your own level. We want you to be successful on the
project and the end of module assessments. So be sure to check out my video that
talks about how to use the features of the course to customize your own path. >> Regardless of the path that you take
through the course, the skills and the data structures that you'll learn
in this course will help you solve a number of problems as
a software engineer, and are essentially core information for
any computer scientist. So without further ado, let's get started.