Hi, I'm Leo Porter. >> I'm Christine Alvarado. >> And I'm Mia Menes. Welcome to the fourth course
in our specialization. We're happy to have you here
to solidify your understanding of object-oriented programming
using data structures. Whether you were with us for the first
three courses, or you're here for the first time, welcome. >> The data structures and
scales you'll learn in this course will allow you to solve a wide range
of software engineering problems. And they're essential knowledge for
any computer scientist. As you develop and
test these data structures, you'll be applying object-oriented
concepts that you've learned in previous courses, like dead encapsulation,
inheritance, and polymorphism. In this course,
as its name suggests, measuring and optimizing performance takes center stage. We'll teach you how to analyze algorithms
at a high level, and then apply these analysis techniques to analyze the
efficiency of several new data structures, including linked lists,
trees, and hash tables. So that you'll always be able to select
the proper data structure for the task. Finally, we'll go beyond high level
analysis to look at how to measure performance on actual systems and how to ensure the correctness of
your code through proper testing. >> As with the other courses, you're going to be learning all this
in the context of a large project employing object-oriented
programming design principles. In this project,
we'll be building a text editor that includes features like spell
check which we all depend on, and auto-complete which you've probably seen
on your phone or in the Google Search bar. We'll also have a bit of fun. We're going to have, you implement
a program that measures the readability of text, and we're also going to have you
implement a program that's a word game, but at its heart is a problem
that's important to both computational biology and
machine translation. >> Now, if you were in the course
with us in the previous course, this project-driven approach isn't
the only thing that you'll recognize. The When I Struggled and In the Real World
Video Series are coming right back, and you'll also have concept challenges
throughout the course to test your understanding. Throughout the course,
you'll feel challenged and empowered to complete the project
while having all the support you need. So without further ado, let's get started.