[NOISE] What we get to do in this
video is take the concepts that you talked about with Christine and
apply them in an example so we can really work through them together
and see how they help us step by step. So the key concept that we're
gonna be developing and thinking about here is
that of memory models. And we're going to see how they apply for this code snippet that
we'll trace through now. So let's think about what happens
in the first line of code. First things first. And in this first line of code,
we both have a variable being declared and then a value being
assigned to that variable. So in our memory model,
whenever we have a new variable, we want to denote that by writing
the name of that variable. [BLANK AUDIO] And then drawing a box where we'll
record the value of the variable. Okay. So we've drawn Var1, we've drawn that in
our memory model, we've got a box for it. And the value that's being assigned is
the right hand side of the equals over there which is 17. And so we put that in the box, cool. Now we can move onto the second line, and in the second line while we're
declaring a new variable. So we have to update our memory model
which means that we need to write Var2, our new variable that we just declared and
give it a box as well. And now we think about what
goes into this box and we look at the right hand side
of the assignment statement. And the right hand side of the assignment
statement says we want the value of var1 + 1. But the value of var1 is
recorded in our handy memory model right over here, it's 17. And so we add 1 to that, and the new
value of var2 is 17 plus 1, which is 18. Cool, okay, two lines done. We go into the next line, and the next line is now just
a pure assignment statement. And what we want to remember is that for
this assignment statement, we're taking the value on the right
hand side of the assignment statement. And what we'd like to do is assign that to be the new value of the variable
on the left hand side. Okay, so on the right hand side,
over here, we've got var2 + 1. And so
we could look at our memory model for the current value of var2, which is 18. And so the value that's on the right
hand side here is 18 + 1, or 19. So that's whats over here, this value. And what we do is we take this value and
we copy it into the box for var1. That means that var1's
new value Is that 19. Okay, and
now we get to display our results, we get to display what
we've done by printing out. So we've got
the system.out.println command and what we're writing here is var1: and then the value of var1 which we
read off our memory model and then we've got a comma, a space, var2. And then, I'm running off the screen but
I'm gonna put the next value right over here and that's the value
that we can read off of var2, 18. And we're done, yey.