[APPLAUSE]
So in this support video, we're going to take our work from the
previous one, we've traced through some code, and right now what we'd like to do
is test it and test our understanding. So by the end of this video
you'll be able to write testeing code to verify the output of your
trace of some Java code execution, and you'll be able to use
Eclipse to run that code. So make sure that you got Eclipse open and we can work together as we're
developing the testing code. So we start with an example and
this is a piece of code that we used in the previous video and
we've used memory models to understand and to conjecture what's going to happen
at the end of running this code. So doing that,
if you think back to the previous video, you saw that we used memory models
to expect that the system will print var1: 19, var2: 18. Okay, great, we've made this guess. We're pretty confident. We know how to use memory models. But we'd still like to check. And when we get to more complicated code
that we've traced through it's good to have another way of
checking our understanding. And so a very good technique to doing so would be to put the code into
a program that we can actually run. All right, so what that means is that
our code needs to be in a class, because in Java everything is in classes. And so we can create a new file in
Eclipse and call that file, for example, IntAssignmentTester.java. Tester is indicating to ourselves
that this is a testing class. And so we define a new class,
public class IntAssignmentTester. Remember that the class name
has to match the file name, and then, in the main method for that class,
we stick the code that we want to test, because when we run the code for this class, we know that the main method
is going to be what's being executed. Okay, so we've defined this new file. We've put the code that we want
to test into the main method. And now in Eclipse we can run the code. And so remember that in order to run code
in Eclipse we have at least two choices. We can use the icon that has the white
triangle and the green circle. Or you can go into the Run menu and
run the code in that way. And then in the window right
underneath where we put in the code, we'll be able to see the output. And be really happy,
because it matches what we expected.