[MUSIC] In this video, we'll walk through
on how to accomplish the goals of program assignment
associated with Module 3. Now how do we start
working with a project? Now this video's gonna be a little
bit different from the last one. Rather than diving straight into the
source code I'm gonna try to walk through how to get started with
a project in general. Now, for this course the best thing to do is to
start by watching the overview video. So if you haven't watched the programming
assignment overview video yet, you'll wanna do that now. Because the overview video
gives you a clear idea of what's gonna be required of
you by the end of the project. It's important to have
that high level view. In fact, from just that video, you know
that for this project you're going to take a map that's given to you and add recent
earthquakes as markers onto that map. Then you're gonna make
the markers appear different based on the magnitude of the earthquake. And lastly, you're gonna add a legend so if someone's looking at your map they
know what, say a large red circle means. Well, that means,
it's this magnitude of earthquake. So those are the three big pieces
we know of the assignment. Now if you didn't have an overview
video like we just provided, you'd wanna try to glean that same idea by
reading through this project description. Now after watching that video, the next step is to really to read
through the project description. We put a fair amount of effort into
making sure these project descriptions are clear to you. This also means though that this product
description may change with time. So it is not quite the same as you see in
this video it's because we change it and try to make it better for you. So the first step is really to
start reading top to bottom. So what are the big learning outcomes? What's expected of you for this? We'll read through the introduction. As you're reading though look for things to keep in mind as you
go forward with the project. For example, when you read this it says, that you're gonna be reading
live data from a RSS feed. You may not what a RSS feed is,
you may not know how to parse length. So there's kind of a question
in your mind, then. Are you gonna be required to
write the code to read the RSS or is that provided to you? So we wanna look for
that when we look at the code later. Just keep reading through
the introduction. You'll notice that in a number of these,
we're gonna tell you resources have open. Now when you're working
through a programming project, it's almost always a good idea to have
Java reference open on your computer. Pull up Chrome tab, have that open right
there, and then you can just start looking for the features that you need and
the references that you need. This is true for
essentially all program projects. Though my own personal experience, I found it absolutely essential
in working with a GUI. Because when you're working with a GUI,
there are tons of libraries. And it's not that important to memorize
how to say write text on a GUI. Because you just look upm how do I write
text in the processing library with a GUI, and you'll find there's
a method called text. So again, not important to memorize
these kind of methods because you can always look them up. So right now open up another tab in
Chrome and essentially open up these two. After you have those open, it's important
to walk through what you'll do. Now, the overview video that I already
provided gives you a pretty clear idea of what's required for this assignment. But if we didn't have that overview
video you'd wanna read through this fairly carefully. And at the very least read kinda
the bolded high level points. You're gonna see that your first steps
gonna be to open up the starter file for this assignment. To trace through the starter code and predict what's gonna
happen when you run it. Since that's your second step, by the way,
I'm going to make sure when we look at the code not to run it, so that you can
still walk through this step on your own. Then you're going to want to
add code to display markers for each of the earthquakes. Then you'll add code to style each of
those markers based on the magnitude of the earthquake and then you're
gonna add the code to draw the key. Now there's a whole bunch of
details that I just skipped over. You can always come back to these when
you get to those steps in the project. But right now you gotta really clear
idea of what's required of you. The next step is to figure
out what we've given to you. So, dive into your code. This is really step one here and
I'll walk through it with you. Dive into your code and see what's there. So what I have here is Eclipse open,
I'm in Module 3 of our UCSD employee maps collection and
we have our earthquakecitymap.java file. This is the code that we provide you. Now, you're gonna see a number of
things in common with the last project. For example, there's still this boolean
flag, which if you're working offline, you need to set it to true. If you're working online,
you can just leave this alone. You'll now notice there's
two threshold values. This is gonna be really useful when we
start looking at changing the appearance of the earthquake markers
based on the magnitude. We've got a map just like
we had the last project. We've got a URL,
which looks like it's associated with the RSS feeds, and
then just like our last project we have a setup method that's gonna
create a p applet of this size. We're gonna create a map,
these two maps right here. If you're offline,
you're gonna use our local provider. If you are online you can
use a Google Map provider. You're going to zoom at a certain
level of the map, and then just like in the last one, this is gonna
make it so that the map is interactive. We'll dive into the details again about
how that's interactive in a later module. As we scroll down,
now we're into some really new stuff. A list of markers. This looks like this is where we're
gonna keep, essentially markers for all the earthquakes. And down here, it looks like we've
got a list of all the earthquakes, which we're gonna get from the RSS feed. In fact, wait this is good news, right? We've got a parse feed class that has
a method called parseearthquakes. So remember what I said back when
we we're looking at the RSS feed, we should keep this in mind. Is this something we're gonna have to do,
or is this code provided to us? Turns out,
it's code that's provided to you. If you're curious, though,
about how to parse an RSS feed, feel free to go into our parsing section,
go into the parsefeed.java. You can open that up. You can see how we parse these RSS feeds. But it's not critical and you can do this,
essentially, if you want on the side. Back to our code,
you'll notice that the very next step has, if we essentially have pulled in some
earthquakes, do something with that. You can work through this
code kinda line by line, but essentially at the high level, it's taking
an object from this earthquakes list, which is a point feature, and
converting it into a magnitude. That's fantastic,
because we're gonna need magnitudes later, when we're trying to decide how
to display these earthquakes. So let's keep this in mind as
a useful thing going forward. Looks like we also have
a color yellow created for us, because we're gonna want to
make one of the markers yellow. And now we're getting to our to-do's. So, our first to-do is to say,
create all the markers, and now attach them to the map. Now, it looks like we already have
a list of all the earthquakes. It's just a matter now of converting
all our earthquakes into markers. Now, if you're not quite sure how to
do that, we give you a helper method, which takes a point feature and
converts it into SimplePointMarker. This will help you get started for
essentially creating all the markers and then adding them to the map. So this method isn't quite done yet. You may wanna change the appearance of
the markers based on the magnitude. And this is probably
the good place to do that. You'll notice that we still have draw
method, which draws the map, and it also adds this thing called addKey. You scroll down some more and you're
gonna find that that's a helper method, and it looks like we're gonna
use this to draw the key or the legend on the left hand side. We're gonna draw this using
the processing graphic methods. At this point, we got a pretty good
idea of what's required in this project. You can really get started. Now, if you run into any problems, remember that there are a number
of hints in the write-up. So look at those hints first and
then if you still have problems, feel free to turn to the forums or
other lectures from this module. I hope you have fun, good luck.