[SOUND] So
you've now heard a lot about objects. You've heard a lot about memory models. You've heard a lot about scope. You've worked through
some concept challenges. And, now we have an opportunity
to put it all together. So, buckle in, get ready,
this is gonna be a tricky example, but we're gonna get through it together. So what we're going to do here is
take the simple location class that you've talked about a lot with Christine
and we're going to change it a bit. So remember the simple location we
want to encode the latitude and the longitude and so far we've been
encoding them as two instance variables, each of them is a number type
of primitive type double. But now we're going to twist things up
a bit and we're gonna define a new class, a different class, called a ray location. And we're still going to want to record
the coordinates of that location, but we're gonna try to implement
this by recording them in an array. So it's an array that
were called quarts and the kind of information that's stored in
that array are still gonna be doubles. All right, so, let's think about how we
might define this class ArrayLocation and then try to use it in the main method. Okay, so, for our class definition
we defined the instance variable coords of type array that's
going to contain doubles. And then we're going to need
to define the constructor. And the constructor when it receives
a parameter that's specifying an array that indicates the coordinates,
we're going to say this.coords = coords. That's going to be the definition
of our constructor. And then we might go ahead and
want to try to use these objects. And so in our main method you can
imagine a situation where we start us off by defining a new array and
initializing it to 5.0 and 0.0. And if you'll look on a map, you'll see that those are roughly
the coordinates of accra in Africa. And so then we might want to create
a location and label the variable that's pointing to that object, that array
location object, call it accra and say. That variable accra is going to
point to a new array location with the coordinates as specified
in that previous array. And then we might want to go ahead and
get ready to think about a different location and so
we might want to use our coords array and store the value 32.9 in the zeroth
index and -117.2 in the index 1. And if you recognize those, those
are the coordinates for UC San Diego. And then, oh just to check that we haven't
messed anything up, we might debug our code by printing out the coordinates
pointed to by the accra variable. And so what I'd like to do now
is pause and I want you to first of all think through what you
think will happen when we do this. And second of all, open up Eclipse, type in this code, remember that you're
file name is going to have to be ArrayLocation.java to
match with the class name. And see what happens and
see if you can explain what happens. And when we come back together,
we'll work through the memory models and figure out together what happens and why.