[MUSIC] Think back to the programs that
you've written up until now. And if you think back to them, especially
if you've had to start from scratch, their functionality may have
been a little bit limited. Maybe you're interacting with files,
text files, or command lines. Maybe you're letting your user
type in a couple of things, in order to determine what the program
does, or ask questions to the program. But what we'd like to do in this project,
and then in this course and specialization as a whole, is ramp you right up to
medium and large scale programs, to get you really experiencing what it's
like to develop code in the real world. And so, by the end of this video
you'll be able to create one kind of pretty sophisticated application, a GUI. And, in order to do that you'll be
reading and using other people's code and libraries, and in particular you'll
be using the Processing Library. I wanna step back and
think about what we'll be doing, and then we'll talk about how to do it. So by the end of this video, you'll
have the tools to create a really cool application, where for this particular
example, we have in the background an image one of my favorite beaches here
in San Diego, La Jolla Shores Beach. And what we're going to do,
is we're going to add a second sun. It's sunny enough in San Diego, but
we're going to add a second one. And that second sun is going to
be like a visual clock for us. And so what we're going to do is have
the color of the second sun that we've drawn on change depending on
the actual time of day around us. And so for example at noon, we want it to
be a bright yellowy, a bright yellow sun. And then as the day gets closer to sunset,
the color maybe will be pinky red, and then at dusk we'll go to gray, and
at nighttime it will black out, and then at sunrise again,
we're going to have the sunshine. So that's what you'll be
able to do by the end. And this is really an example of a GUI, which is a funny way of saying
Graphical User Interface. It's an acronym. And when you think about
graphical user interfaces, maybe that sounds a little bit
complicated, but you can't use a computer these days without interacting
with a graphical user interface. They're really the programs that
we work with all around us, from maps to development environments
like Eclipse, to browsers. Everything around us has
elements like menus, or icons, or response to mouse clicks,
has text boxes. All of these elements that
we can draw on the screen, display data to the user, invite
the user to interact with the program by manipulating something on the screen. Those are all graphical user interfaces. So the application that we are working
on is a particular graphical example and it's one that's displaying information. In a couple of modules, you'll also be
able to incorporate interactivity and have your graphical interface
respond to user input. That's coming soon. But for now, let's think about how we might go about
coding some graphical user interfaces. And we don't want to start from scratch. What we'd like to do is think about
what other people have done before us, stand on the shoulder of
giants as people say. And there's all sorts of libraries
available to do GUIs in Java. So you might have heard of some of
these names as you're Googling around, seeing how to program in Java. And everyone's got their favorite. Some are older, some are newer. In this course, we're going to be
using the processing library, but something I want you to keep in mind
throughout this whole process is, that it doesn't really matter
which library you end up choosing. There are odds and
quirks about each one of them. There's little tricks to do with how you
might choose one rather than the other. But at the end of the day, the design
of the GUI is a high-level process and it's a really important process, because
it will determine a lot of the usability and the user experience of people who
are customers to your application. So it's really crucial, not the focus of
this course, but when it comes down to implementing a design, you can use
all sorts of different libraries and they'll all provide
the similar functionality, and the way that they'll provide that
functionality is through documentation. And so what we'll be talking about
in the rest of the videos that come, is how to use that documentation in order
to create this really cool application.