[APPLAUSE]
All right, so we've got our canvass all set up, and
we're ready to draw something on it. And as I've mentioned,
I wanna put a happy face on the screen, because I like happy faces. So what I'm gonna need is some shapes,
to draw with. And the first thing I'll need is a head. So I need to draw a head on my canvass,
and I want my head to be a circle. So I don't know how to draw a circle,
I don't remember, so I'm gonna go back over to my
processing documentation. And if I go back to that overview screen, I see that processing provides me
with a whole bunch of methods for drawing shapes, and I've got some built
in what are called 2D primitives here. And I can see that one of those
primitives allows me to draw an ellipse. So I click on that. And I see that, okay, it's pretty easy. I just call the ellipse method,
I pass it in, four values. And those values are the X and
Y coordinates of the ellipse, and then, the width and height of the ellipse. So let me go back over to my code and
try that out. So ellipse,
I'll put it at position 50, 100. And then, I'll have it be not too big,
I'll do it 75 by 75. So there, I need my semicolon, and
let's see what that looks like. All right, so when I put my ellipse on
there, I see that by default I get white ellipse or circle in this case,
since the height and width are the same. And it's appearing at exposition 50, so
it's 50 over from the left hand side, and you can see thats it's actually 50
over to the center of that ellipse. And then, it's, well, this is weird,
it's 100, but the whole window is 400. And, normally,
you'd think about positive Y, starting from this lower left hand corner,
and going up. But if you remember back to me
as video and computer graphics, positive Y is actually facing down. And the 0, 0 points to the 0,
Y coordinate is way up here, at the top left corner of my document, so
it's the top that's the 0, Y coordinate. And then, Y gets bigger, as you go down. So with the Y value of 100 it's only about
a quarter of the way down my window. If i want to bring it further down,
if i wanted at the bottom, near the bottom window, I'd have to make the Y
value very big, so I'd make it, say 300. And you can see that that ellipse
moves all the way down the page. All right, so I want a big happy face, and
I want the background of my happy face, not to be white but to be yellow. So lets look at how to do that. So one thing I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna make my ellipse much bigger, and I'm gonna center it in my window. So my window is 400 by 400. I'm gonna put it at 200, 200, and I'm gonna make it 390 by 390,
so it's gonna be nice and big. And then, the other thing I'm gonna do is,
before I draw my ellipse, I'm gonna change the color that
it's going to be filled with. And the way I do that is
using the fill method. So I fill it, and this time I'm
again gonna pass in an RGB value. And I happen to remember that
yellow is made by doing red, 255, green, 255, and then, blue is 0. At least I think so, so
let's try that out, and see what happens. There we go, I've got a nice yellow
head that I can draw my face onto. Great, so let's continue. I now need some eyes, so let's think
about where these eyes are gonna go. They're gonna go roughly, here, so let's
work on putting the first eye on our face. So I want it to be kind of somewhere
in this upper left corner, of this GUI. So let's try it out. It's also gonna be an ellipse, but this
time it's gonna be a black ellipse, so let's change the fill color to be black. And then, Im gonna put another ellipse at position 75,75, and I'll make my ellipse 50 wide, 70 high. Lets just see how that looks. I could sit down, and I could do all
the geometry to make it look perfect, but I'm just gonna try it out. Oh dear, I'm way off,
that eye is way off the face. So let me try to correct that,
I need to move it down, and a little bit to the right. So 75 isn't quite right,
let's try a much bigger value, a somewhat bigger value for the width. Let's try 100 for the X position, and then, let's try 130 in the Y position, let's see what that looks like. Okay, that's getting better. I'll maybe move it in a little
bit more and try that out, so 100, I'll make that 120,
and see what happens. Okay, that's not a bad place for the eye. So lets go ahead and
put another eye on my happy face, and I want this one to be the same height,
the same position down the canvas, but equally far in from the other side. So let's just reason about what
the coordinates should be, ellipse, let's see, so I want it to be
120 in from the right hand side. And we know the canvas is 400 wide, so I'll put it at position 280,
and the X direction, and then, it needs to be the same in the Y
direction, and the same size, so 50 by 70. And I'll try that out. All right, look at that. I've got eyes, and all that's left to
do is give this a guy a happy face, so I need a shape that
it is going to do that. So, let's go back to the shapes list here. And I see that I have
a shape here called an arc, that's gonna come in quite handy for
that smile. So an arc allows me to, basically,
trace the edge of an ellipse. And the way I specify an arc is by
specifying the ellipse that I'm tracing. So here's the X and
Y position of the ellipse that I trace. And then, the width and
height of the ellipse that's being traced. And then, over here I have
the angle that I want to trace out. So the 0 angle is right here, and then, it
goes around clockwise, all the way around. And these angles are measured in radians. So halfway around is going to be pi. All the way around is going to be 2pi. And they've got built in constants
that we can use for those values. So let's go ahead and just try this out. So I want to do an arc, and
I want the ellipse for my arc. Let me just take a guess. I'll put it at about 3, not 300,
200, it needs to be centered, and about 280, so
down towards the bottom of my face. And then, I will make it,
let's try 75 by 75. And I'm gonna start it at angle 0 and
go through angle pi, which will bring me a half circle arc,
and let's try that. Okay, look at that. [LAUGH] It looks pretty good, actually. That's pretty cute. I can make some tweaks,
if I wanna make some tweaks. One tweak that i'll show you is that I
don't want this little face to have a full mouth, I want the mouth to be open,
so there's this method called, no fill, that will cause that
ellipse arc not to be filled in. And if I run it, I can see that he
now smiles withnot such a full grin. And I can change the parameters
to make the smile wider or to reposition it, but that looks like
a pretty, happy, little face to me. So I'm gonna stop there. I hope you'll play around with this. Now that you've got basic methods, that you can play around with,
you can have a lot of fun. So go ahead,
make something really interesting, and just have fun playing with it.