>> Hi, I am Christine Alvarado. >> I'm Mia Minnes. >> I'm Leo Porter and we're all professors of Computer Science here the University of California San Diego. Welcome to our specialization on Java programming, object-oriented design, and data structures. But before we start talking about our specialization, I will tell you a brief story. Back in 2008, Google unveiled Flu Trends which is a really neat idea that you could predict flu outbreaks based on search terms. What it really just meant was a bunch of people in San Diego start searching for terms like fever or chills, you predict an outbreak is coming to San Diego soon. What really made this exciting was you can predict it long before traditional measurements, which relied on folks going to the hospital or to a medical center. >> So that's really cool. But why are we talking about the flu in a specialization on programming and data structures? Well there are two connections between that story and the specialization. And the first is data. In order to make those predictions, Google needed lots and lots of data. And that's something we have today, all around us from weather sensors, to social networks, to the human genome. We're practically swimming in data. But it's not enough just to have that data. We need to be able to process it efficiently and effectively. And that idea of processing data efficiently and effectively is really at the heart of software development and computer science. >> And it's what you'll be doing in these four courses and the Capstone Project of the specialization. So we'll be talking about object-oriented programming. We'll be talking about both basic and advanced data structures and then we'll be talking about analyzing the algorithms and thinking about correctness and efficiency. Once we've got the technical background in place, we'll also bring that to the workplace. We'll think about interview skills and we'll think about avenues for success when you're working in a software engineering or related job. In an academic setting, like on campus here, we would call this course a gateway course. A gateway to what? Well, to Computer Science as a field. Once you've mastered the foundations, you're ready to delve into whatever you're interested in. Whether that be artificial intelligence, cryptography, security, bioinformatics, the world is open to you. >> Welcome to this first course on object-oriented programming and user interfaces. In this course, you're going to get to learn how to design graphical interfaces, handle user input, design class hierarchies including inheritance and polymorphism and begin thinking about program efficiency. >> And you'll be doing all of this in the context of a really cool project. So, you'll be reading an earthquake data from around the world in real time and then mapping that data onto a picture of the real world map. And then what you'll do is make this map interactive, customize it, personalize it, and share it with your fellow learners and the world. >> Speaking of personalization, we recognize that you're coming to us with different backgrounds and different comfort levels with programming and computer science. We expect that you've all had some basic course in Java programming but that doesn't mean that you'll work through this course or the specialization at the same speed. If you're more comfortable and you've had more experience, you'll be able to work through the courses faster and focus on that project. If you need a little more support, that's also fine. There's a path that will provide you with that extra support. Most MOOCs are self-paced, but we're here to provide you with some guidance to find the path through this course and the specialization that's right for you. So without further ado, this first module's going to dive right into that project that Mia just told you about. It's going to be a lot of fun. So let's get started.