Hi, I'm Christine Alvarado. >> I'm Leo Porter. >> And I'm Mia Minnes. >> Welcome. We're so glad you're joining us for
the third course in the specialization. We hope you enjoyed learning Java
programming from our excellent colleagues at Duke and that you're ready
to extend your skills further. We'll start where you left off by
looking at the details of designing and implementing classes in Java. We'll start by refreshing some of
the basics and then move on to core object oriented concepts like class hierarchies,
inheritance and polymorphism. >> Just like in the Duke courses, you'll be building projects
with real world relevance. You'll notice though,
as your programming skills are ramping up, the projects get more ambitious. In this class you'll be visualizing
earthquake data live on a map. You'll be able to build a core project,
and then customize and personalize it, and then have the opportunity to share it
with a broader learning community. Throughout the course you'll also hear
from industry professionals about how they use object oriented programming,
like you're learning in this class, in their career. >> You'll also find a number of new
elements in our courses, as well. First, we're going to be switching
from BlueJ to Eclipse as the preferred programming environment. If you don't have any experience
in Eclipse, that's totally fine, we'll give you the help
you need when you need it. Secondly, we're going to be introducing
a number of new video series. The first of these is
called concept challenges. In concept challenge videos you'll be
learning alongside UC San Diego students as you tackle challenging problems. We'll give you more details about these
new video series in the upcoming videos. Lastly, we know you come to us with
different programming backgrounds. Those of you who are more comfortable
with programming, feel free to move more quickly through the course focusing
on the programming assignments. To those of you with less experience, we'll give you the help
you need when you need it. Many of the courses on Coursera allow you
to pick the pace that's right for you. We're helping you find the path
that's right for you as well. So let's get started.