[MUSIC] Hello again, I'm Mia Minnes and I'm
a Professor of Computer Science here at UC San Diego, and my background and
my research is at the intersection between mathematics and computer science,
between theory and applications. And what I really like to think
about is the power of algorithms. I like to think about abstract ways of
organizing and structuring data, and then applying them to really interesting real
world problems and solving those problems. And you'll have the opportunity to do
just that in the project in this course. And so what this video is about is showing
you a prototype of the project and getting you really excited to jump right
in and get started developing yourself. So, if you take a look
at this map over here you'll get a picture of what you'll
be developing in the project. And I'd like to start off by saying that
the machine, the engine under the hood that helps us do the visualizations on
this map that you're seeing is really thanks to Till Nagel and his team at the
University of Applied Sciences in Potsdam, and all of the other contributors
to the Unfolding Maps Library. Part of what we're thinking about and
developing in this course is the ability to build large scale
projects using existing libraries. And we're really fortunate to have this
library as the foundation for the project. So let's take a look at the project and
see what we're doing. You'll see,
we have a map of the world in front of us. And there's all sorts of markers,
and features, and stuff on this map. Now, don't worry. We will walk you through
the project step by step so don't be intimidated by the amount of
information that's being displayed. I hope that you're inspired by
the amount of information, and this information is real live data. And so, it's really interesting
that by the end of this process, you'll have a way of
interacting with live data, and the data that we have in this project
is from earthquakes around the world. It's put together by the USGS,
taking seismic information from all over. And what we're doing in this visualization
is depicting each earthquake as either a square or a circle on this map,
and then coloring that square or circle on the map based on attributes
like magnitude, like depth and like time. So, how long ago the earthquake happened. So, all of that is encoded in this key. And you will be able to create and style
your own legend as well and what that key tells us is for example that this red
square marker over here is an earthquake that happened in the middle of the ocean,
sort of south, close to Antarctica. And it was a relatively
shallow earthquake. And the fact that the square's not too
big, not too small means it was maybe an average size in terms
of magnitude earthquake. And then we also have interactivity built
into this project, which is really cool. So, for example, if we have
hover on top of that red square, we see a little pop-up that says that
this earthquake was magnitude 5.1. Now, that's not the only interactivity. So, for example, we notice that there's a fair amount
of activity going over in Asia. We can double-click on that part of
the world, and see that Japan, for example, has a lot of markers around it. And so, we could look around and see that some of these earthquake
markers have xs on them. And we look at the key and notice that
means they occurred in the past day. And we might zero in on Tokyo,
for example. And when we click on the triangle,
which depicts the city Tokyo, notice that a bunch of earthquake markers
disappeared and only a few remained. And so, in this project, you'll be able
to implement this interactive feature that when we just wanna focus in on
a particular city, only earthquakes that are close to that city stay visible,
and all the others disappear. And then if we click on Tokyo again,
everything comes back into view. So, that's a taste for the project
that you're developing in this course. It may seem somewhat complicated, like
it has a lot of features, and it does. But what we'll be demonstrating throughout
this course is a really good approach for dealing with large scale projects, which is to break them up
into manageable pieces. And the way we've done that follows
along with the modules of the course. So, at the end of each module, the end
of module assessment will typically be a part of the project that you'll be
implementing that uses the concepts and the ideas that you're thinking about and
learning in that module. And so you'll see how each time you
acquire a new piece of information, or knowledge, or
skill to do with programming, you'll be able to immediately
apply it in this project. So, I hope you're as excited about this
project as I am, and let's get started.