[MUSIC] Hi again, I'm Christine Alvarado and
in this video I'm gonna give you some information that will help you choose
your own path through this course. So, when I'm not teaching, what I like
to do is, I like to build programs and curriculum that help bring in
a diverse set of learners to study and work in the field of computer science. And one thing I've learned about
reaching a diverse audience is that you need diverse courses
with diverse support structures. So we've engineered this
diversity into our course and into the whole specialization. We know that you're coming to us with lots
of different motivations, backgrounds, experience levels, so one size fits
all is not gonna work for this course. And, that's okay, that's actually great. We love that you're coming from
all these different backgrounds. And what we want, is for each of you
to feel challenged, because otherwise, what's the point? But also never to feel overwhelmed. We want it to be the case where when
you feel like you're starting to get overwhelmed, you can always have some more
support, to help you with your learning. What we've designed is a course where
we have different video styles, different video series
to help meet that goal. So you're not going to want to take
this course by just sitting down and watching the videos one after another. What you're going to
want to do is pick and choose a path through the videos
that's right for you. And to help you do that, I'm gonna tell
you about our different video series. But first I wanna say that at the end of
the day, it's all about what you can do. Mia described this really cool project
that you're gonna be doing throughout this course. And that's really what we
want you to be able to do. So what we care most about, are these
end of module assessments which are, a lot of the time, going to have you
building a piece of that project. So if you're feeling really advanced, really good about the material,
always feel free to race ahead and just start working on that project or
do the end of module assessment. But if you want a little instruction, which most of you will,
you'll wanna watch some of the videos. So the first video series that I'm gonna
tell you about is our core content series. So these are the videos that
we expect everybody to watch. They're mostly lecture style and they're
gonna introduce you to the core concepts and skills that you're going to need
to do the end of module assessments. Once you've watched those videos, we're gonna probe your knowledge a bit
more with our concept challenge series. Again we encourage most
learners to watch these videos. And what they're going to do is they're
going to ask you to think about the material you just
learned in a new way. And Leah is gonna tell you more about
these concept challenges in just a minute. The next series that we have for
you are additional support videos. Now, we don't expect everybody
to watch these videos. These videos are designed for if,
after watching the core content, and doing this concept challenges, you don't
quite feel ready to tackle the end of module assessments, you might want to
watch these additional support videos. The last two video series that we have,
we're really excited about. These are series that aren't
designed to deliver content, so much as to put the content that
you're learning in context. So, the first of these series is called,
In the Real World. And we've got a team of real life
Google engineers talking about why what you're learning is important,
in their work at Google and in general in the software industry. So that'll be a really good opportunity
for you to learn, not only why what you're learning is important, but how it's
important to these individual engineers. And then the last series that we have for
you is called, When I struggled. And what you're going to see in this
series is a number of UC San Diego learners as well as us,
talking about our own experience learning the material that you're
gonna be learning during this course. We'll talk about a time where we struggled
with the material that we're presenting, and then we'll talk about how
we overcame these struggles. So we hope you'll watch
both of those series and that it'll enrich your
experience in this course. So again, to summarize, the standard
path we imagine a learner taking to this course, is that you would watch
this introduction with the Google engineers talking about why these
concepts are important in the real world. You would go through and
watch the Core Concept videos and perform these concept challenges, maybe watching some videos about when some
learners struggled with these concepts. Along the way, and then perform
the module-level assessment, and you would repeat that for each module. But if you're feeling more advanced, you
might just wanna race right through those core concept videos and get to that
end of module assessment faster and get developing on those projects. And we encourage you to do that,
if you're feeling comfortable. And again, if you feel like you
need a little more support, you've got those support
videos available to you. So any time you feel like you don't
quite understand what's going on, you need a little more help, go ahead and
pull out those support videos and we hope that you'll find
the support that you need. So choose the path that's right for
you, challenge yourself, and have fun.