[MUSIC] Hi again, I'm Leo Porter. I'm a computer science
professor here at UC San Diego. One of my areas of research is
computer science education. What we like to do in that area of
research is look at the best practices for student learning in the classroom. One of the best practices we know about
in computer science is peer instruction. With peer instruction, students get to tackle hard problems,
discuss it with their peers, and then participate in a large classwide
discussion with the professor. We do this in a number of the courses
here at UC San Diego, and we'd like to bring this to you. And we're gonna do this through a series
of videos known as the Concept Challenges, so let me walk through an example here. So here we have you watching a video,
now let's assume this is from a previous class in Java that you've taken before
where you learned first about for loops. So, you watch the video on for loops,
and then you get done with the video and the question becomes well,
did you learn it? I mean, there's certainly areas of the
video that you probably understood well. But there may be some areas that
you didn't understand as well. So the best way to find out whether or not you really understood
the material is to solve problems. So we're gonna ask you questions to help
elucidate what areas you're strongest in and which areas you're not. So a question might look
something like this, so you've just watched a video on for
loops and here's an example of for loops. And the question here is asking,
how many times does i<10 execute? Now the reason we ask a question like this
is because we expect a number of folks will get this wrong. In fact, we want you to get a number of
these question wrong because that means it's an opportunity for learning. What we expect is a lot of novice
learners would answer B here. They would say that the loop executes ten
times, so i<10 will execute ten times. But the condition i<10
actually executes 11 times. And we'll talk more about
that as we go forward. So after you solve
the problem on your own, after you've tackled the problem yourself,
what you're gonna then see, or what we hope you can do,
is work with other learners around you. So if you have anyone else in your
neighborhood, or friends who have taken the same course, this is a great time to
get together and discuss the question. And by discussing it with your friends,
you're gonna find out one of you may say, well, wait a second,
does it execute that last time? And then you realize, oh, shoot,
it does actually execute 11 times. But if you don't have
some friends around you, what we're gonna give you is also a series
of videos where you're seeing UC San Diego learners discussing the question. And there you'll hear them
say things like, well, wait a second, it's really easy
to forget that last check. Oh, yeah, so the answer must have been 11. And then, after you hear
the UC San Diego learners discussing it, you're gonna hear one of our explanations. So the full course of one of
these questions is gonna look something like this. You're gonna pause,
try solving the problem yourself, you're gonna discuss the question with
other learners around you if you can, you're either then gonna watch a video of
the UC San Diego learners discussing it. And then you're gonna confirm your
understanding by listening to our explanation. By solving these kind of hard problems, you're gonna understand
your material much better. You're also gonna identify areas
that you might need improvement. And that's where more support videos and
the forums come in.