[MUSIC] All right, in this course,
the project you're gonna be developing is that cool text editor
that you saw the demo of. We're gonna get started here in this
lesson talking about the first thing you'll add to that text editor, which is the ability to determine
the readability of a piece of text. So let's talk about what that means. By the end of this video you'll be
able to use the Flesch Index Score in order to measure
the readability of a piece of text in order to incorporate
it into your project. So let's try to take a look at
what we mean by text readability. So let's take a look
at this piece of text. This is a piece of text from
the US Tax Code document. The document that describes how
the United States taxes its citizens. And this is largely understood to
be one of the most confusing and hard to understand documents around. So I pulled a piece of text from that
document and that piece of text says, there is hereby imposed on the taxable
income of every individual other than a surviving spouse as defined in section
2(a) or the head of a household as defined in section 2(b) who is not
a married individual (as defined in section 7703) a tax determined in
accordance with the following table. And then there's a table that follows. Now I don't know about you, but
that's pretty difficult to understand. And in fact, that's one of the easier
passages from this document to understand. The first section I tried to pull, I spent
20 minutes trying to understand it, and I couldn't understand it so
I had to get a simpler piece of text. So this is one of the simpler
pieces of text from that document. It's still pretty complicated. So, I'm confused,
let's simplify this text a little bit. Here's my re-write of what
that piece of text just said. Basically it says, if you're single,
you've never lost your spouse, and you're not the head of a household, then you pay
taxes according to the following table. And again the same table would follow. Much easier to understand. So we have these two pieces of text. The piece on top is relatively
difficult to understand, the piece on the bottom is
relatively easy to understand. I've taken a few liberties
in simplifying the text. It's not exactly the same with the same
precision as the piece of text on top, but they mean basically the same thing. And the question we wanna ask now is, how can we quantify the difference
between these two pieces of text? So what we're going to do in this video,
as well as on your project, is you're going to use something
called the Flesch readability score in order to allow the computer to
quantify how readable a piece of text is. You can see the formula for
the Flesch readability score here. And the Flesch readability
score was developed by an author named Rudolf Flesch. And what it looks like is the following. So the idea behind the score is that
you have this constant out front, this 206.858. And then, from that constant, you're
going to subtract two different terms. And that's going to basically lower the
potential; Flesch score that you can get. So in order to understand
how this formula works, we need to look at those two terms that
we're going to be subtracting from that constant to understand what a high score
means, and what a low score means. So let's first think about
what makes this formula high. So what makes this formula high,
since we're subtracting two terms, is if these two terms we're
subtracting off are relatively low. So what does it mean? When are these two terms relatively low? Well, they're relatively low if
there are few words per sentence, then that ratio is going to be low. And few syllables per word,
then that second ratio is going to be low. So, in other words, if we're dealing
with short sentences and short words, those two terms will be low leading
to a very high Flesch score. So now intuitively we can see that a high
Flesch score, and in practice above 90, leads to a very easy
to read piece of text. On the other hand,
if we have those two terms be high, in other words we have a lot
of words per sentence, and a lot of syllables per word we're
gonna end up subtracting off a lot from our initial constant and
end up with a very low Flesch score. So a Flesch score of below 30 is a piece
of text that's very difficult to read. And that again makes sense. If you have long sentences with long words
the text is gonna be more confusing. Now then we have these constants
out in front of those two ratios that basically just weight
those two terms accordingly. And those are just determined by Flesch to
match our intuition about how text is easy or difficult to read. And in this case it basically
means that longer words make text a little more difficult
to read than longer sentences. So more syllables are bad basically. So, if we apply that to their two pieces
of text, we can see that the piece of text on top, that confusing text,
has a very low Flesch score, 12.6. And that corresponds to basically a post
graduate reading level, which everyone basically agrees, you need to be a lawyer
in order to understand this document. And that piece of text on the bottom, my
paraphrase of it that's got a much higher Flesch score of 65.8, and
that's about a 10th grade reading level. So my six year old maybe wouldn't be
able to read this and understand it. But people with secondary education
should do a pretty good job of understanding what that sentence means. So, how does this relate to
what we're about to talk about? Well, in order to calculate the Flesch
score for text, what do we need to know? We need to know the number of
words in the piece of text. We need to know the number of sentences. And we need to know
the number of syllables. Now if we imagine that our piece of text
is just represented as one big long string in Java,
we're going to need to be able to do manipulation with those strings
in order to calculate that score. And that's what we're gonna
look at in the next video.