[MUSIC] So you've already seen the full text
editor that you are going to be implementing as part of this course. But in this video, I'm going to give you a
quick overview of what you'll be adding in this week's project,
your first programming assignment. So here's our text editor, and you can see
that there are a bunch of buttons over here for what I can do with text. And this week we're going to be
focusing on this flesh index button. So what this button is going to do
is it's going to give you a score, which is a measure of how
readable a piece of text is. Let me just demonstrate this behavior
with a couple of passages of text which may be familiar to you. So the first piece of text that I'm going
to test out is from the book Peter Pan. So here is Peter Pan, and
I can find this book on Project Gutenberg. And I'm just going to take the first
few paragraphs in Peter Pan. Copy them out of Project Gutenberg and
copy them in to the text application. And now I'm going to press
this Flesch index score and I can see that this piece of
text has a score of 81.23. Now we'll be getting to a little bit more
what exactly the Flesch index is over the course of this week. But just know that, that score,
it's a pretty readable piece of text. Which makes sense,
because this is a piece of text, this is a story that was written for
children. So let me compare that to something else. Let me go over here and
pick a very different book. A Picture of Dorian Gray by
Oscar Wilde not a piece of text, not a piece of literature that was
meant necessarily for children. So let me go down here
to the actual story and again pick the first few
paragraphs of the story. And now I'll go over
here into my text app. I'll replace the text there and
let me now calculate the flesch index for this piece of text. Wow okay, so 25.88,
that's a much lower score. That indicates that this piece of text
is a much harder to read piece of text, it's for more mature readers. So you can play around with this once
you've implemented this functionality. Figuring out the readability of
different pieces of text and coming right up you're going to learn
what this flesch index score is. How to work with strings
to calculated it and how to integrate this functionality
into this text application. Have fun.