[MUSIC] The programming assignment for the first
course module is really aimed at just getting us up to speed and
running with Unfolding Maps. I know that many of you are eager to get
programming, but before we can get there, you're gonna have to get Unfolding Maps
set up and running in Eclipse first. So please follow through our texts and our video guides to helping setting up,
help setup Unfolding Maps for your system, and then turn to the forums
if you run into problems. Before we get there,
what I wanted to show you is an example of a finished programming assignment for
this first module. We'll give you the code to create the map
on the left, which is centered on us, here at UC San Diego. Specifically, we're
really right about here. Notice that on this map I'm
able to zoom in and out. So zoomed out, I'm able to zoom in. I'm able to zoom in toward UC San Diego. And we're really right over here. Now being able to zoom like
this is pretty amazing. A lot of work goes into making
something like that happen, including getting the map data from
Google Maps, so the handling of my mouse, scrolling in and out. These amazing features are really just
part of the libraries and Unfolding Maps and processing, which is why we're
using these libraries for this project. All right, back to our assignment. We're gonna give you the code
to produce the map on the left, which is zoomed into San Diego. What we want you to do is to
create the map on the right, which we zoomed in to where you live. Now I live in San Diego these days, but I grew up in Pullman, Washington, which
is on the east side of Washington State, and Washington state's on
the West Coast of the United States. So this is really just
a small program assignment, just to get started with Unfolding Maps. The big step is really just scanning
Unfolding Maps and working on your system. So select the right video guide for
installing Unfolding Maps, Java, and Eclipse on your personal system. And I'll see you again for
the assignment walkthrough.