[MUSIC] In this video, we're going to show
you how to get the starter code for the project and get it set up in Eclipse. So you've probably already found this
setup document which is week one, getting started with the project. It's talking about how to setup
a Java Eclipse and the starter code. And I'm going to assume that
you've completed part one, which is setup Eclipse and Java. And we're going to jump down to Part 2. So about halfway down the document,
this is the part that we'll be going over, getting and setting up the starter code. So you can download the starter
code from this link here and what you want to do is download it and
unzip it somewhere on your system. And the only restriction is we want you to
put at somewhere that is not inside your Eclipse workspace folder. So, once you've downloaded and
unzipped the code, you'll go over here into Eclipse,
and you should see a blank workspace if you haven't done
any other coding yet in Eclipse. So, what you'll want to do is
to get the starter code set up, you go to the File menu and then in the File menu, you'll click
Import and that'll open up a new window. And what we want to do is we
want to import an existing project into our workspace. So that's under General, so I expand the
General tab if it's not opened already, then I'm going to click on
ExistingProjects into WorkSpace, click Next. And then what I have to do is tell Eclipse
where to find the code that I want to import. So I go over here and I browse and then I'm going to browse back to where
I saved and unzipped that starter code. And I just put it on my desktop, so
I'll go up here and find my desktop and here it is down here at the bottom. So I select the UCSDUnfoldingMaps
directory, and then I click OK. And you can see that it
imported this project or it gave me the option to import
this product in this window here. So the only other really important
thing that you need to do is make sure that this Copy projects
into workspace option is selected. We actually want to copy the files,
the source code and everything else, from wherever we
saved it into our workspace directory. So just make sure that's checked,
and then you click Finish. And then what you're going
to see is that our code and everything else has been successfully
imported into our workspace. So you can see that now I have
the starter code, if I expand it out, you can see that there's a whole bunch
of files associated with this project. And if I open up the source code,
I can see this divided into these organizational modules
basically called packages. So there's one package for every module
that has a programming assignment. So module1, 3, 4, 5, and 6 and
that's where you'll find a starter code. So here we can see the starter code for
module1 in a file called HelloWorld.java. And I can open by double clicking on
it and I can even run this starter code by clicking this button here and
selecting Run As Java Applet. You might have multiple choices there,
if you do, just select Java Applet. I won't run it right now, because I
don't want to give away what it does. I'll let you wait until you start on a
project to figure out what that does, but that's how you would run it. And then the other thing to notice is
that there's this package called Demos. And if you look at that,
that's going to have a bunch of demos that we're going to be working with
throughout the course in the videos. So if you want to run some of the code
that we talk about in the videos, look here in this Demos folder. We don't have all of it here,
but we do have some of it, so you might find it here. All right, and for
the last thing I want to tell you about is where do you actually find all
of these files on your file system. So remember when we checked that
Import into workspace button, that option when we
imported the whole package? Well what that did was it actually copied
all of our files into our workspace. So if you go over here into our file finder you can see that this folder here,
UCSDUnfoldingMaps, that's where we can find all the actual
files associated with our project. And you can see here in
the source folder and for example module1, this is where
my actual .java file resides. But you'll be editing it through Eclipse,
but if you want to know where it actually is,
here it is. Okay, now you're all set up and
ready to go, so have fun with the project.