[MUSIC] Congratulations on getting Java,
Eclipse, and [INAUDIBLE] maps set up on your system. Set up is actually one of the biggest
barriers to getting started with this course. So now that you've gotten that done we can
start diving into the program projects. Which we hope will be more fun. The role of these videos is, first,
to give you an idea of what's required for the project and, secondly, to give you
some hints about where you should look at in the code to help solve the problem. So this video is really a high-level
view of the programming assignment, along with some tips. If you want the full
details of the assignment, you can always go to the Reading
on the Programming Assignment. So for let's dive into the code. So if you got un fully
maps that are properly, you should have have package
here which is UCSDUnfoldingMaps. And let's start by spanning that. So, span it going to the source,
module1 is for this programming project Going to
module 1, you'll find HelloWorld. If you open that you'll
find this file here. Now it's always a good idea,
when starting with a new file, to figure out what the high
level structure is. So we know what the class name is,
this is HelloWorld. It's extending PApplet. We're going to dive into some details
about what extends means later in this course. But for right now this means that this is
going to be a graphical user interface. And it has two methods that
we're going to care about. So if you scroll down,
you'll find the setup method. Setup is called once, and
it sets up everything within the frame. And then the other method that
we're going to focus on is draw. Now draw is called repeatedly. So now that we have an overview of
the structure, that there's a setup and a draw method. Let's try running an application and
see what it looks like. So Go under here, do Run As > Java Applet. And what we get is an application that
has a background with a map on it, and this map is zoomed in to California. It already has some built-in
functionality, in that you can zoom in or zoom out if you wish. And what's missing from this right now,
is a second map, which should go here, which is going to
be zoomed in to your hometown. So that's the main thing you have to do
with this assignment is create the second map that's zoomed in to your hometown. And we'll do is we'll start looking at the
code that might help you accomplish this. So the main thing to focus on is
where was that first map created. So if you go into your code,
what you'll find are, we have two maps that are created,
map1 and map2. And before I dive into the details
of those I do want to mention. If you are working offline, you'll
want to change this variable to be true. All right, back to our maps. So we have two maps,
an unfolding map1 and an unfolding map2. And what we've set up is map one for you. But we haven't set up map two yet. We create the application
just as we do here, which is using the size method which
creates an 800 x 600 size map. And then we set the background. If you want to change the background
color you can play with that here. And then we use our map provider. Which here we are using Google. We have some code which only
applies if you're offline, and then you can find out here
finally our first use of Map1. Here we're creating a new unfolding map,
here's our x, our y, our width, and our size, and we're using this Google Map
provider to creat this unfolding map. Now you want to use something
just like this for your solution. And notice that, then, right after
we create the map, we then zoom and pan to a location. And this location happens to
be the location of UCSD, but you'll want to put in the location
of your hometown here. The next step is to see if
map1 is used anywhere else. And it turns out map1 is
shown in the draw method. So as long as you do the draw method. And if you call map1.draw within
the draw method map 1 draws. You want to do something
similar with map 2. So I hope at this point you have a pretty
good feel of what you're going to do. So you're going to focus
on setting up a map 2 in the right location in the application. And then you're going to
zoom in to your hometown. And then you're going to make sure that
map2 is drawing every time this draw method gets called. After completing your assignment,
your next step will be to just take the Programming Assignment quiz
at the end of this module. So you will not being sending any code for
any of the assignments within this course. Instead, you'll be taking
the end of module quizzes, which will test you on the concepts
both in the module but also on ideas related to
the programming assignment. So before take the end of
week required quizzes, make sure you do the programming
assignments first.