[MUSIC] In this video we're gonna look at the cool
features you'll get to ad to your text editor as part of week 5. So the first of these is
essentially spelling suggestions, which is a core feature
of any text editor today. So once you turn on spelling suggestions, it's gonna mark the ones
that are incorrect, which we've essentially
already figured out how to do. Is we just check to see if
the words are in the dictionary. But what spelling suggestions is gonna do,
is it's gonna allow you to right click on a word, and have it give you suggestions
which are essentially words that are real words that are close to
the misspelled word. For example if I click on my
words key instead of working, it's gonna give me working,
along with some other words that are essentially very close
to that misspelled word. I can select working to fix it, likewise,
for prooblems, I can click on that and correct it to be problems. Again, this is a core
featuring text generator. It's a fun feature to implement, and
that's the first part of the assignment. So the second part here is really just for
fun. And in the second part what we're going
to do is essentially play a game where we try to go from one word to another by
making small interchanges that result in real words. And I think this will more
clear with an example. So let me input the word this and time. And what we're going to
do is try to find a path by making these small
changes from this to time. And the path that it
finds takes four steps. So if I start with the word this and
I try to make permutations to it, I could add a letter
like n to produce thins. Once I have thins, I can change
the letter S to E to make it thine. Once I have thine, I can remove
the letter H to produce the word tine. And once I have the word tine, I can
change the letter n to be the letter M. Notice for each of these steps, I'm making a single character
mutation that results in a real word. This is kind of a fun game
to play in your head, but in this case we're gonna
be implementing it in code. So again, hope you have fun
with this project, good luck!